Setting-up the anconda jypter note-book, gitbash

->going through the video introduction to python:

Python is a programming language, and interpreted object-oriented and high-level language.
It also supports procedural read programming as well as object-oriented.

->going through the video in string

String means it is a combination of characters.

->code will be uploaded in the ipython

what is the difference between a method and function?
Functions or methods basically the same	thing.
A method is a just a function that belongs to an object.

->going through the video in string

->going through the video in Integers and Floats - Working with Numeric Data

Integer is a whole number and a float as a decimal

->going through the video in Variables & Data Types

Variables its basically just a container where we can store certain data values, different type of a data we can store inside of variables

-> going through video in getting input from user
code will be uploaded in the ipython
-> going through video in lists,tuples, and sets
code will be uploaded in the ipython

-> going through video in - Dictionaries 
Dictionaries: Dictionaries is a pair of value, we can declare the values in key and values.
If we want to create a dictionaries we need to open the curly basis
practice Code will be uploaded in the ipython
adding and removing the dictionaries from dictionaries
How to copy dictonaries from one variable to another variable
code will be uploaded in the ipython

Conditionals and Booleans:
Going through video

Boolean represents true or false value.
conditional statement are used to decide whether code has to be execute or skip based on the evaluation of the condition.
practice Code will be uploaded in the ipython

Loops and Iterations:
going through video
A for loop is used for iterating over a sequence
with the break statement we can stop the loop before it has looped through all the items
with the continue statement we can stop the current iteration of the loop, and continue with the next.

Functions:
Going through video:
sets of instruction
Functions are basically some instructions packaged together that perform a specific task
In python a function is defined using the def keyword.

Import modules:
Going through video
module is a collection of functions.
module is .py extension will be there.
we write a code in module we can reuse it that code, that file we can import and use that
In modules we have classes, functions, and variables will be there
if we want to import file we use Import Modulename (here import is a keyword and name of your module)
practice code in ipython

Variable Scope:
Going through video
.It is a name of a storage location
Local Scope: which are variables defined within a function or within a block is called local scope:
Global scope: The variables that are declared in the global scope can be accessed from anywhere in the program.
Enclose scope: what ever variable we define in the function we call it in enclose scope and local scope.
Built in scope:when the varible or object is not found in local, global or enclose scope then python looking for it in the build-in scope.build-in scope that covers all in the reserved keys.

Slicing Lists and Strings:
Going through video
List slicing: We can slice the list of elements.we can give the elements in the list the syntax of slicing is with square brackets we give [start:stop:step] values.

String slicing: It is possible to string in a python. Slicing we give syntax in with in the square brackets the output print like characters.

postive index: it will come left to right
example:[0,1,2,3,4,5]
negative index: it will come right to left
example:[-1,-2,-3,-4,-5]
+operations works in combining of two lists


Comprehensions:
list Comprehensions:
-> It is technic which is used to create a list in very compact way.
-> we can write in single line of code, the syntax will be first we give expression then we give for loop and iterations.
practice code in ipython

Sorting:
Sorting is the process of arranging data into meaningful order so that you can analyze it more effectively.
sorting is a descending and decending order
Using sorted() with a reverse argument:
The output has been reversed with the reverse keyword set to True

String Formatting:
Going through video
string and non-string when we combined we called it as string format.
non-string means any object like number,float,list
we can combined any object with string then we use string format
we use placeholder using module operator, module operator means %s
second method is .format method
f-string is a new method in python 3.6 and above we are using f-strings 

Import OS:
Going through the video
Os means operating system.
Os model in python provides functionality for interated with the operating system.

datetime module:
Going through the time and
Practice code in ipython

File objects:
going through the video
practice code in ipython

Automate Parsing and Renaming of Multiple Files:
going through the video
Practice code in ipython

Random module:
It is build-in python
Going through the video
practice code in ipython

CSV -
csv means comma seperate values
going through video
practice code in ipython


Error and Exception handling:
going through the video
practice code in ipython

F-String
It is a new way to format strings in python 3.6 and above
going through the video
Practice code in ipyhton

Generators:
It is used to generate sequence of values
going through the video
practice code in ipython

